README.md, before:

**August 18, 2025**  
- **Today's Focus:** Update README.md for Project: Recipes (HTML Foundations), fix minor errors and broken image paths in the HTML pages.   
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Markdown syntax for formatting text and for displaying a screenshot or a gif in the README.md file.         
- **Aha! Moment:** Markdown processors can read and process HTML elements, but it is impractical to use HTML elements in markdown files as the whole purpose of markdown language is to reduce the complexity and keep the raw text cleaner.         
- **Next Step:** Begin with the next lesson, "Intro to CSS"


**August 17, 2025** 
- **Today's Focus:** Work through the remaining sections of Project: Recipes (HTML Foundations).  
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** HTML elements such as, `figure`, `figcaption`, and `small` to attribute credits for the images used. `Git restore` and `Git mv` commands to unstage a filed staged in error and to change the name of the directory in both local repository and Github, respectively.      
- **Aha! Moment:** Use the `Git mv` command instead of just the `mv` command to change the name of the directory being tracked on Github to efficiently accomplish the task of making a commit and pushing the change to GitHub - Using `Git mv` will ensure both changing the name of the directory and staging the file.       
- **Next Step:** Continue work on the residual sections of the Project: Recipes.


**August 16, 2025** 
- **Today's Focus:** Project: Recipes (HTML Foundations).  
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Reinforced my learnings by writing the boilerplate and basic text HTML code for three recipe pages and an index page and then passing these pages through the Git workflow and pushing them to GitHub with conventional commit messages.  
- **Aha! Moment:** The realisation that passing the `git add .` command from the root directory of the repository adds all the files that have undergone modification. Before knowing this, I used to navigate to respective directories to choose the files for the staging area.    
- **Next Step:** Work on the remaining sections of the Project: Recipes. 


**August 15, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** Resuming studies after a break. Completed a comprehensive review of all Foundation topics (CLI, Git, HTML).
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Reinforced my understanding of the Git workflow (`add`, `commit`, `push`) and the core concepts of HTML semantics.
- **Aha! Moment:** The review process helped clarify the difference between Git's local repository and the remote on GitHub.
- **Next Step:** Begin the first project, "Recipe Pages."


**August 4, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Commit Messages.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Learned the two-part structure of a professional commit message (subject and body) and the conventions for writing them.
- **Aha! Moment:** The realisation that it is advisable to write the commit messages in imperative mood to maintain consistency with the grammar of the automated commit messages, making the commit history consistent and easy to understand and read.        
- **Coming Days' Goal:** Revise everything before attempting the project.


**August 3, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Links and Images.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Meaning and use of tags used to link webpages and display images and various attributes and their values used with these tags to influence how images are displayed and ensure security and privacy when linked pages are programmed to open in separate tabs or windows - `<a>`, `<img>`, `href`, `target`, `noopener`, `noreferrer`, `src`, and `width`. Four types of image formats - JPG, SVG, GIF, and PNG - and their ideal use cases.
- **Aha! Moment:** Realisation that certain features that were deemed necessary for a certain type of websites a few years ago came with security risks, and ironically, the steps taken to avert the security risks break the feature's functionality: Attribute and value pair `target=_blank` opens the linked page in a new tab, allowing the linked page to maintain communication with the original page, a feature used to present login pages, historically, but applying the security measures - `noreferrer and noopener` - severs this connection and by extension, its utility in presenting login pages.        
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin with "Commit Messages".


**August 2, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Lists.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Meaning and use of tags used to create lists: `<ul>`, `<li>`, and `<ol>`. 
- **Aha! Moment:** The realizations, through experimenting, that tags `<ul>` and `<ol>` influence whether the list items would be displayed as bullet points or numbered points and that removing the `<ul>` and `<ol>` tags but retaining the list items wrapped in their respective `<li>` tags presents the list items as bullet points and removes the indentation. `<ul>` and `<ol>` are both semantic and block elements.     
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin with "Links and Images".


**August 1, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Working with Text.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Meaning and use of HTML Tags - Paragraphs, headings, strong, and emphasis; How to create and use comments; relationship between nested elements. 
- **Aha! Moment:** The realization that the tags paragraph, headings, strong, and emphasis are semantic. They provide meaning to the content they wrap, influencing how assistive technologies present them and how search engines index them. The visual effects are all browser's doing.    
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin the "Lists" lesson.


**July 31, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - HTML Boilerplate.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** The essential, five-part structure of every HTML5 document: `<!DOCTYPE html>`, `<html>`, `<head>`, `<meta charset="UTF-8">`, `<title>`, and `<body>`.
- **Aha! Moment:** The key realization was the clear separation between the `<head>` and the `<body>`. The `<head>` is for invisible metadata (data *about* the page, like the title for the browser tab), while the `<body>` is the container for all the visible content the user actually sees.
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin the "Working with Text" lesson.

Commit message:

docs: Update log for 18 Aug - 19 Oct

README.md, after:

**October 19, 2025**  
- **Today's Focus:** Update daily log after a break, comprehensive revision before attempting CSS exercies.   
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Reinforced my understanding of the CSS concepts such as the cascade, the box model, display properties, position properties, and block and inline boxes.          
- **Aha! Moment:** CSS is very thoughtfully created, as it appears to have a descrnable solution or reasoning for edge cases and rare scenarios. The more one knows CSS, the more likely one is to find an elegant solution to a hairy problem.          
- **Next Step:** Begin with CSS exercises assignment in the lesson Block and Inline. 

**August 18, 2025**  
- **Today's Focus:** Update README.md for Project: Recipes (HTML Foundations), fix minor errors and broken image paths in the HTML pages.   
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Markdown syntax for formatting text and for displaying a screenshot or a gif in the README.md file.         
- **Aha! Moment:** Markdown processors can read and process HTML elements, but it is impractical to use HTML elements in markdown files as the whole purpose of markdown language is to reduce the complexity and keep the raw text cleaner.         
- **Next Step:** Begin with the next lesson, "Intro to CSS"


**August 17, 2025** 
- **Today's Focus:** Work through the remaining sections of Project: Recipes (HTML Foundations).  
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** HTML elements such as, `figure`, `figcaption`, and `small` to attribute credits for the images used. `Git restore` and `Git mv` commands to unstage a filed staged in error and to change the name of the directory in both local repository and Github, respectively.      
- **Aha! Moment:** Use the `Git mv` command instead of just the `mv` command to change the name of the directory being tracked on Github to efficiently accomplish the task of making a commit and pushing the change to GitHub - Using `Git mv` will ensure both changing the name of the directory and staging the file.       
- **Next Step:** Continue work on the residual sections of the Project: Recipes.


**August 16, 2025** 
- **Today's Focus:** Project: Recipes (HTML Foundations).  
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Reinforced my learnings by writing the boilerplate and basic text HTML code for three recipe pages and an index page and then passing these pages through the Git workflow and pushing them to GitHub with conventional commit messages.  
- **Aha! Moment:** The realisation that passing the `git add .` command from the root directory of the repository adds all the files that have undergone modification. Before knowing this, I used to navigate to respective directories to choose the files for the staging area.    
- **Next Step:** Work on the remaining sections of the Project: Recipes. 


**August 15, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** Resuming studies after a break. Completed a comprehensive review of all Foundation topics (CLI, Git, HTML).
- **Key Concepts Solidified:** Reinforced my understanding of the Git workflow (`add`, `commit`, `push`) and the core concepts of HTML semantics.
- **Aha! Moment:** The review process helped clarify the difference between Git's local repository and the remote on GitHub.
- **Next Step:** Begin the first project, "Recipe Pages."


**August 4, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Commit Messages.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Learned the two-part structure of a professional commit message (subject and body) and the conventions for writing them.
- **Aha! Moment:** The realisation that it is advisable to write the commit messages in imperative mood to maintain consistency with the grammar of the automated commit messages, making the commit history consistent and easy to understand and read.        
- **Coming Days' Goal:** Revise everything before attempting the project.


**August 3, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Links and Images.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Meaning and use of tags used to link webpages and display images and various attributes and their values used with these tags to influence how images are displayed and ensure security and privacy when linked pages are programmed to open in separate tabs or windows - `<a>`, `<img>`, `href`, `target`, `noopener`, `noreferrer`, `src`, and `width`. Four types of image formats - JPG, SVG, GIF, and PNG - and their ideal use cases.
- **Aha! Moment:** Realisation that certain features that were deemed necessary for a certain type of websites a few years ago came with security risks, and ironically, the steps taken to avert the security risks break the feature's functionality: Attribute and value pair `target=_blank` opens the linked page in a new tab, allowing the linked page to maintain communication with the original page, a feature used to present login pages, historically, but applying the security measures - `noreferrer and noopener` - severs this connection and by extension, its utility in presenting login pages.        
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin with "Commit Messages".


**August 2, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Lists.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Meaning and use of tags used to create lists: `<ul>`, `<li>`, and `<ol>`. 
- **Aha! Moment:** The realizations, through experimenting, that tags `<ul>` and `<ol>` influence whether the list items would be displayed as bullet points or numbered points and that removing the `<ul>` and `<ol>` tags but retaining the list items wrapped in their respective `<li>` tags presents the list items as bullet points and removes the indentation. `<ul>` and `<ol>` are both semantic and block elements.     
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin with "Links and Images".


**August 1, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - Working with Text.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** Meaning and use of HTML Tags - Paragraphs, headings, strong, and emphasis; How to create and use comments; relationship between nested elements. 
- **Aha! Moment:** The realization that the tags paragraph, headings, strong, and emphasis are semantic. They provide meaning to the content they wrap, influencing how assistive technologies present them and how search engines index them. The visual effects are all browser's doing.    
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin the "Lists" lesson.


**July 31, 2025**
- **Today's Focus:** The Odin Project - Foundations - HTML Boilerplate.
- **Key Concepts Learned:** The essential, five-part structure of every HTML5 document: `<!DOCTYPE html>`, `<html>`, `<head>`, `<meta charset="UTF-8">`, `<title>`, and `<body>`.
- **Aha! Moment:** The key realization was the clear separation between the `<head>` and the `<body>`. The `<head>` is for invisible metadata (data *about* the page, like the title for the browser tab), while the `<body>` is the container for all the visible content the user actually sees.
- **Tomorrow's Goal:** Begin the "Working with Text" lesson.
